Data cleansing is an art and it's
very important to
any data project.
Almost always when you receive
data to perform analysis,
it's not exactly that
you are looking for.
We can have extra characters
left over from a system extract.
The reference data we're
looking for is embedded in
something else or we could
even have duplicate data.
There are many other
opportunities for issues.
These issues are caused by
problems working across systems,
data originally being
prepared for other purposes,
and sometimes just
pure human error.
With these issues, sometimes what
separates a good
data analysts and
a bad one is
their ability to prepare
the data and limit issues
further down the line.
However, to prepare it,
we will start to build
your arsenal tools that you
can use to start to
fix your datasets.
First, we will work with values
and then we will shift to
working with some
interesting techniques
just to split text data.
In problem 1a, we'll learn how
to use the clean function.
This function will remove any of
the non-printable
symbols that you
may get new data when it is
imported from
other various sources.
In this example, we have
a leading paragraph symbol
within our dataset.
Frequently, older
database programs include
system characters
within their extracts
that you would not want
to work with an Excel.
I'm going to type
the equal sign, clean,
and open parentheses and
reference the first cell in
the table above to return
the data without
that paragraph symbol.
I'll close the parentheses
and click enter.
Next, I'll drag down
the formula using
the plus sign in the bottom
right corner of the cell.
When you drag that down,
you'll notice that
our formula was dragged
down but also the formatting
of the first cell.
So I'm going to click the little
menu button that pops up,
and click fill
without formatting.
This will ensure that
only the formula is
dragged down to
the other cells in
the table and not the format.